，问怎么shading，怎么处理single point of failure，怎么master election，怎么load balancing，之前也在网上看过类似博客，答得还不错。
Sharding method
a. Horizontal partitioning:
This is also called a range based partitioning as we are storing different ranges of data in separate tables. Horizontal partitioning is also called as Data Sharding.
b. Vertical Partitioning: In this scheme, we divide our data to store tables related to a specific feature in their own server.
The main problem with this approach is that if our application experiences additional growth, then it may be necessary to further partition a feature specific DB across various servers.
c. Directory Based Partitioning: A loosely coupled approach to work around issues mentioned in the above schemes is to create a lookup service which knows your current partitioning scheme and abstracts it away from the DB access code.
 So, to find out where a particular data entity resides, we query the directory server that holds the mapping between each tuple key to its DB server.
sharding criteria
 a. Key or Hash-based partitioning: A workaround for this problem is to use Consistent Hashing.
 Caused issue:
 a. Joins and Denormalization:
 once a database is partitioned and spread across multiple machines it is often not feasible to perform joins that span database partitions.
 A common workaround for this problem is to denormalize the database so that queries that previously required joins can be performed from a single table.
 Of course, the service now has to deal with all the perils of denormalization such as data inconsistency.

 single point of failure
 master-slave when master down slave becomes master.

 master election
 paxos algorithm to do leader election
 1. prepare
 A Proposer creates a message with num n
  2. promise majoriy acceptor accept n
  3 proposer set n with v send request to accept
  4 acceptor accept the proposal
use random time out across the nodes to avoid infinite election.
The 3PC protocol eliminates the 2PC protocol’s system blocking problem with the third phase preCommit.
If the coordinator fails before sending a preCommit message, other processes will unanimously agree that the operation was aborted.
The coordinator will not send out doCommit message until all processes have acknowledged.